replace sso guide (#483)
livingdocsIO/documentation: content/guides/authentication/azuread-login.md

> ---

Reviewer: please rename that file to `azure-ad-login`... I was still a bit tired and read "azu..... read"... hä what "read"?? :-)

title: Single Sign-On
description: Learn how to setup SSO with the example of AzureAD.
weight: 2
---

## SSO example with Azure AD

> To use a SSO with OpenID Connect we have a strategy `li-authentication-openid-connect` to use in the `auth.connections` config. With this strategy you can use a SSO Service (AzureAD, google, github, facebook, ...) which supports the OpenID Connect for authentication.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use SSO (Single Sign On) with OpenID Connect we have a strategy `li-authentication-openid-connect` to use in the `auth.connections` config. With this strategy, you can use a SSO Service (AzureAD, Google, GitHub, Facebook, ...) which supports OpenID Connect for authentication.  
```

> This is an example for an AzureAD SSO. It has to be added to the server config in the `auth.connections` config. It creates a setup for the SSO with AzureAD and shows the button for that on the login page. It is also using the existing local user from livingdocs and transfer it to a AzureAD User. This means that the articles which are already written from this user will still be assigned to the same user. It isn't possible to login with the local login after the first login with AzureAD. The match of the user is done with the email address.

Reviewer: > ...and shows the button for that on the login page.

A screenshot helps a lot for understanding.

Reviewer 2: > It isn't possible to log in with the local login after the first login with AzureAD. The match of the user is done with the email address.

Why wouldn't be that possible? We don't disable the local authentication in the code? https://github.com/livingdocsIO/documentation/pull/483/files#diff-cf940d8d1d870d147dde0ee6ad2022dea7efef258d2a1004fab473540b442226R24

Author: my fault, I didn't realize that we don't transform it we just add the new identity provider. But we have to rename the function name, as it isn't a transform.

> This is an example for an AzureAD SSO. It has to be added to the server config in the `auth.connections` config. It creates a setup for the SSO with AzureAD and shows the button for that on the login page. It is also using the existing local user from livingdocs and transfer it to a AzureAD User. This means that the articles which are already written from this user will still be assigned to the same user. It isn't possible to login with the local login after the first login with AzureAD. The match of the user is done with the email address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable AzureAD SSO for Livingdocs, add the config below to the server config in `auth.connections`. It creates a setup for SSO with AzureAD and shows the button for that on the login page. It is also using the existing local user from Livingdocs and transfers it to an AzureAD User. The already written articles with this user will still be assigned to the same user. It isn't possible to log in with the local login after the first login with AzureAD. The match of the user is done with the email address.
```

```js
const nanoid = require('nanoid/generate')
const alphabet = '0123456789ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZabcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz'
const azureConfig = JSON.parse(process.env.auth_azure || '{}')

> module.exports = {

Reviewer: Here is a missing `auth` property, it should be 
```js
module.exports = {
  auth: {
    ...
    connections: { ... }
  }
}

Author: It depends, I provide a file which can be used in the config. So you would use `auth = require.resolve()` so that is why I mentioned it where to put it. But I also see your point. How do we usually do the config examples?

Reviewer: We usually show the config from the server config root. If you prefer an example with require.resolve, I would make a complete example for clearness.

  accessTokenTtl: '10h',
  sessionTtl: '20h',
  connections: {
    local: {
      label: 'Password',
      enabled: true,
      loginEnabled: true,
      registrationEnabled: false,
      strategy: 'li-authentication-local'
    },
    azure: {
      strategy: 'li-authentication-openid-connect',
      enabled: azureConfig.enabled || false,
      loginEnabled: true,
      registrationEnabled: false,
      autoRegistrationEnabled: false,
      connectionId: 'azure',
      // Azure AD Issuer, replace the tenant with your tenant id
      // example for google: https://accounts.google.com/.well-known/openid-configuration
      issuer: 'https://login.microsoftonline.com/{tenant}/v2.0/.well-known/openid-configuration',
      config: {
        clientId: azureConfig.clientId,        
        clientSecret: azureConfig.clientSecret,
        scope: 'openid email profile',
        async extractClaims ({tokenSet}) {
          const claims = tokenSet.claims()
          // assert group here

>           await transferLocalIdentityToAzure(claims)

Reviewer: How many times will this function be called, on every login or more?

@marcbachmann this looks quite complicated for me (and is more than a config). Is this currently the best possible solution? Can we improve that in the future?
